RoboCup Rescue Robot League

Version: 2026A

2026 Championship, Icheon, South Korea
The RoboCup Rescue Robot League gathers teams of researchers capable of developing robotic systems that enable
emergency responders to perform extremely hazardous tasks from safer stand-off distances. These mobile robots
need to demonstrate assistive and autonomous behaviors that can increase their reliability when operating remotely
within complex environments, including even partially collapsed structures when necessary.
Established just prior to the World Trade Center collapse in New York City more than twenty years ago, the RoboCup
Rescue Robot League has hosted robot evaluations annually all over the world. In addition to demonstrating the
state-of-the-science in robotics for unstructured environments, we help develop the standard test methods
emergency responders use to objectively evaluate commercial robots, train with measures of remote operator
proficiency, and compare results no matter where or when the evaluations happen.
This is just the first step out of the laboratory for many of these robots and researchers. It is a long process to harden
and commercialize robots for deployment into such difficult environments. But these League participants are
determined to use their skills and energy to help emergency responders stay safe as they save lives.

Bringing Robotics Researchers Together to Collaborate
The RoboCup Rescue Robot League conducts comprehensive evaluations involving essential mission tasks required by
emergency responders worldwide. The arenas include a variety of reproducible terrains, obstacles, and tasks with
increasing difficulty to challenge even the most capable robots.
• Mobility (MOB) refers to a robot’s ability to move reliably and effectively through its environment. This includes
navigating different types of terrain, overcoming obstacles, maintaining stability, and positioning itself where tasks
need to be performed. The reproducible tests measure how well a robot can get from place to place under
real-world conditions.
• Dexterity (DEX) refers to a robot’s ability to manipulate objects with precision, control, and flexibility. Dexterity
tasks are embedded within various terrains and obstacles, including objects mounted on linear rails to evaluate
manipulator reach and omni-directional objects to assess orientational dexterity. These tasks may be performed
with any part of the robot—for example, legs pressing buttons or flippers turning valves. Inspection tasks may also
be completed using a chassis-mounted camera
• Autonomy (AUTO) is designed to reduce the operator’s cognitive load by providing reliable, precision-focused
autonomy that supports multi robot operations, even in degraded radio-communication environments. Its
behaviors enhance mission effectiveness by maintaining consistent performance and ensuring robots can operate
dependably with minimal operator intervention for rescue operations. This includes the generation 2D and 3D
maps of the environment while identifying objects of interest in the labyrinth as well as autonomous navigation
and manipulation in the lanes.

1

Arena Layout 2026
Version: 2026A

Urban Approach Sequence:
●
Center in Doorways (auto likely): Multiple
adjustable doorways set to the ROBOT
WIDTH + 10cm (4in)
●
Pallets & Pipes: 20cm (8in) step heights
●
Crossing Ramps: 15°|30° slopes with
optional spinners
Semi-Collapsed Approach Sequence:
●
Gravel Terrain (auto likely): Shifty terrain
with embedded X frames
●
Diagonal K-Rails: 10|20cm (4|8in) trip
obstacles
●
Half-Cubic Stepfields: 15cm (6in) step
heights

Dwelling Access Sequence:
●
Avoid (auto only): Palletized path to stay on
with 10cm (4in) elevation changes and 5-10
gates set to 90cm (36in) wide.
●
Push/Pull Doors: Lever knob, 90cm (36in)
wide, with weighted closure.
●
Stair Debris/Pallets & Pipes Climb/Crouch
Tasks Under Landing: Choose either to
ascend or descend. Stair Debris have 20cm
(8 in) risers and Pallets&Pipes have 30cm
(12in) elevation changes.
Dwelling Search:
●
Maze (auto only): Reconfigurable to use
multiple entrances, layouts, fiducials, and
tasks for different trials.

2

Competition Features
Version: 2026A

Robot: Each paid registration allows one robot to compete. Robots must
weigh under 80 kg. To qualify as a small-sized robot, the robot must be able
to pass through a 30 cm square opening. All robots must be equipped with
secure, safe handles to move the robot. All robots must have an e-stop.

Test Methods within the Arena
MOBILITY LANES

Remote Operator Stations are used because the robot operator should not
have direct visual contact with the robot within a test lane. No
communication between team members and the operator is allowed unless
reset. The operator must receive all situational awareness through the
system interface as if the robot is down range or in a structure. One
operator at a time only! Switching operators is OK. Operators must stay at
the operator station and must not watch the robot during the trial.

Terrains
• Crossing Ramps (with Slip disks) (0° or
15° slope)
• K-Rails (0° or 15° slope)
• Gravel (15° slope)
• Cubic Stepfield (0° or 15° slope)

Tethers are always allowed because they can provide secure
communications and ongoing power to drive the robot or recharge batteries
over time. To avoid getting snagged on obstacles, tethers should be spooled
on the robot and act as a winch when necessary to help descend stairs then
climb back up if necessary. If tethers are dragged behind the robot within
the test lanes, the tether must be managed from the lane entrance by a
designated cable handler. Tethers may not be guided over the lane walls.
Only one cable handler is permitted during the mission. The cable handler
must remain at the lane entrance (except in the labyrinth), and the use of
sticks or similar tools to aid in cable management is prohibited.

Obstacles
• Traverse & Center (15° incline, variable
width)
• Pallet Hurdles with Pipes (20cm
elevations)
• Stairs (35°/40°/45° incline with 0, 2 or
4 barriers)
• Doors

Difficulty Settings for Test Lanes may increase going from preliminaries to
semis finals/finals by raising the lane slope to a 15 degree incline for
increased difficulty. Apparatus difficulty setting is the same for all teams,
and the time limit is the same, the trial results are comparable.
Trial Time Limits are not intended to make it a race. Rather, there is enough
time for a capable robot to demonstrate a statistically significant number of
task repetitions. This provides a measure of reliability that the task can be
performed. Trials begin every 30 minutes:
• 5 minutes to set up
• 20 minutes of operation
• 2 minutes for sensor assessment (victim box)
• 3 minutes to exit
Autonomous Mobility are encouraged by additional points (see score form)
for maneuvering through complex environments with no guidance from the
remote operator –hands-off the interface from endzone-endzone. No QR
code will be placed at the start point. The robot must rely on mapping to
navigate from the end zone back to the start point. A single QR code will be
located in the end zone to enable the robot to identify the end zone. After
preliminaries one or two QRs codes may be placed at the end zones of the
sequence. Pre mapping is allowed outside of the Maze (labyrinth). Teams
may map the arena in advance, including for the semi-finals/finals. The
Maze is the only exception—no pre mapping is permitted inside the maze.
Radio Communications Degradation Assistive or autonomous behaviors can
improve the effectiveness and reliability of the robot. We provide additional
points to robots that work reliability within intermittent and unpredictable
communication conditions. To train for radio degradation in advance, follow
the build instructions of the Radio Degradation Box published by the
Communications Network Institute of TU Dortmund University here:
https://github.com/tudo-cni/vsting-sa
Teams must be dressed appropriately to enter the arena area; closed toed
shoes and long pants.

AUTONOMY ONLY
• Avoid Holes Lane (elevated path to
follow)
• Mapping Labyrinth (maze) (round
fiducial, objects) (not a lane)
DEXTERITY (included in all lanes)
Classification Tasks
• Inspect (linear 1 pts, omni 2 pts)
• Touch (linear 2 pts, omni 4 pts)
• Insert (linear 3 pts, omni 6 pts)
Operational Tasks
• Push E-Stops (omni 10 pts)
• Rotate Valves (omni 10 pts)
• Insert Keys (omni 10 pts)
Sensing Tasks (Victim Crate)
•
Thermal Image Acuity (5 pts)
•
Partial Image Recognition (4 pts)
•
Motion Detection (4 pts)
•
Proximity Sampling (3 pts)
•
QR Code Acuity (2 pts)
•
Visual/Color Acuity (1 pt)
•
2 –Way Audio Acuity (1 pt)

3

Innovate, Evaluate, and Compare
Version:
The primary goal for teams is to push the capabilities of their robotic systems and improve their methods. Through
this 2026A
process, they gain an understanding of what their robots need to succeed in real-world situations.

Inclusiveness: Teams get as many trials as possible within the time available, so they can rigorously evaluate their robots
across the terrains, obstacles, and tasks that support their research objectives. Teams schedule their own test plan each day
to manage their own risks.
Resilience to Failure: During a trial, robot resets may be declared by the operator or team member. Resets will last at least
2-minutes. This allows the robot to be safely carried and reset in the previous end zone to continue the trial. Robot repairs
must be performed in the arena area (not in the team paddock). Touching the robot during the trial is an automatic reset.
Configuration changes are not allowed during a trial (ie removing the arm).
Between trials, configuration changes are allowed to optimize the robots performance for particular terrain or task.
Locomotion must remain the same.
If a robot is unable to continue the competition, the team may proceed with another robot; however, the score for the new
robot will be set to zero. If the robot is identical, consideration may be given to team to not zero their score.
Additional Challenges:
Negotiate Leaning Obstacles:
Perform additional maneuvering tasks in the any lane to
earn additional points (See Mission Form). Forces larger
robots with advantages in the terrains and step-over
obstacles to steer precisely and crouch at times. Small
robots simply steer clear. All bars are magnetized in place
so that any touched bar falls. Hitting the walls hard can also
do it, so precise control is rewarded.Fallen bars act as
debris so are not removed until the robot has moved past
them to the next repetition or terrain. Extra points can be
given for the number of bars left intact for each repetition
(reset at the start).

Negotiate Leaning Obstacles

Carry a pipestar in the test lane

Carry a payload: Carry the payload in your gripper in all
test lanes for additional points (See Mission Form). Note:
this may be a pipestar or other object determined at the
start of the competition. need to add maxs
Radio Comms Degradation:
Perform the mission under increasingly challenging
network conditions over time in all test lanes by using the
league’s Radio Degradation Box to earn additional points
(See Mission Form).
To train for radio degradation in advance, follow the build
instructions of the Radio Degradation Box published by the
Communications Network Institute of TU Dortmund
University here: https://github.com/tudo-cni/vsting-sa.
●
The final parameters will be decided during test
runs before preliminaries.
●
For Teams preparing ahead of the competition,
the maximal degradation settings are: 5 Mbps
bandwidth, 10 % packet loss and 100 ms delay.
●
Network degradation settings increase over time
and are reset in between mobility and dexterity

Radio Comms Degradation Setup

4

AWARDS
Version: 2026A

Every team has the opportunity to fully evaluate their robot. Teams that accumulate high scores are eligible to receive
Best-in-Class awards in recognition of their achievements.

1st, 2nd, and 3rd Place Awards (trophies) are given to teams that combine all three categories of capabilities to demonstrate
the best performance across the entire arena. These teams perform the most challenging mission sequences on the final
day. Both teleoperation and autonomous points count toward the championship awards.
BEST IN CLASS AWARDS (certificates) are based on scores recorded during the semi-finals, when experienced judges are
proctoring the trials. If the scores of teams in the semifinals are within 10% of one another and those teams advance to
the finals, the Best in Class award will be determined based on the cumulative total of each team’s semifinal and final
scores.
• Best-In-Class Award for Autonomy is given for the team that demonstrates the most capable and reliable
autonomous robot. All autonomous points are included. Sensor crate will not be included.
• Best-In-Class Award for Autonomous Mobility is given for the robot that performs the most successful
autonomous terrain repetitions across 9 different lanes in the Semi/Final sequences. Successful autonomous
lane repetitions must be performed with no operator interactions between end zones. The threshold to be
eligible for this award is 6 successful autonomous repetitions between end zones in any lanes, which is
approximately 50m (150ft) distance downrange. That is 20% of all possible lane repetitions across all three
sequences (10 repetitions x 3 sequences = 30 total repetitions). Teams can choose the order of each sequence
but must complete all three lanes to repeat the two lanes they find easier. One way to achieve the threshold is to
score at least 2 successful autonomous repetitions (downrange and return) in the easiest terrains for the team in
all 3 sequences. Only autonomous mobility points count toward the best-in-class award. Scores from the maze
and sensor crate will not be included.
• Best-In-Class Award Autonomous Dexterity is given for the robot that performs the most successful autonomous
Inspect tasks across 9 different lanes in the Semi/ Final sequences. Successful autonomous Inspect tasks must
be performed with no operator interactions from a stowed position within proximity to the tasks. Autonomous
approaches are not mandatory , as the robot can be positioned teleoperatively in front of the dexterity tasks.
The threshold to be eligible for this award is 6 successful autonomous Inspect tasks using both Linear and Omni
tasks. That is 20% of all available Inspect tasks across all three sequences (10 tasks x 3 sequences = 30 total
tasks). Teams can choose which dexterity tasks are completed in which particular lanes but must change lanes to
perform each different task with no repeated tasks allowed. The threshold requires at least 2 successful
autonomous Inspect tasks in the 3 easiest terrains across sequences, or a complete linear set in any particular
terrain plus one other task anywhere else. Only autonomous dexterity points count toward the best-in-class
awards. Scores from the maze and sensor crate will not be included.
• Best-In-Class Award for Autonomous Mapping is given for team that demonstrates the most capable and
reliable autonomous robot within the maze. Only autonomous mapping points count toward the best-in-class
award. Only scores from the maze will be included.
• Best-In-Class Award for Small Robot is given for team that demonstrates the most capable and reliable robot
that fits thru a 30 cm square passage to be considered for this award. All scores (teleop and autonomous) will
count towards the award. 1st, 2nd and 3rd may be awarded according to RoboCup Award criteria.

Bracket Classification Awards will be given to compare like-kind of robots, this will alleviate fairness concerns between
fundamentally different robot types. At the beginning of the competition robots will be placed in their respective bracket.
Robots will only be in one bracket. Depending on the number of robots in a bracket will determine the number of
certificates awarded in each bracket.Brackets will consist of the following: Best Tracked Platform, Best Wheeled Platform,
Best Bipedal Platform, Best Quadruped Platform, Best Open Platform (those that do not fit in any other category)
Additional Certificate Awards recognize important contributions across the league such as the most intuitive operator
interface or particularly effective design functionalities.

SPARC: A Standard Platform for the Autonomous Rescue Competition is currently under
development. Awards will be given for first, second, and third place, subject to sufficient team
participation. Competition rules will be published in a separate document.

5

Lane Overview

END
START

NEGOTIATE 2

OMNI

Version: 2026A

LINEAR

Crossover

START
END

OMNI

NEGOTIATE 1

LINEAR

DOOR

LINEAR
LINEAR

OMNI

START
END

OMNI

START
END

15 DE
GREE

SLOP

E

6

Version: 2026A

●
●
●

K-Rails
20 cm high
Avoid omni

●
●

K-Rails - 10 cm high
15 degree incline

●
●
●

K-Rails - 10 cm high
15 degree incline
Pinch points and/or
Negotiate
7

Scoring for Missions
Scoring Mobility
• Mobility scoring is based on continuous driving
end-to-end traverses in the lane. The robot must start
and end each traverse completely within the
designated squares (Lane Overview).
• Driving teleoperatively scores 1 point for successful
completion in each direction.
• Driving autonomously (hands off the interface) scores
10 points for successful completion in each direction.
The remote operator may take over control at any time
to finish a traverse teleoperatively for 1 point and try
again autonomously on the next repetition.
• Additional points are available for carrying a payload,
Negotiate thru Leaning Obstacles and Radio Comms
Degradation. Teleoperation is allowed in both end
zones in any case to set waypoints, create maps, etc.
• Single Lane Missions perform up to 10 end-to-end
traverses in the first 10 minutes of the trial. If finished
early, use the elapsed time as a measure of efficiency.
Wait for the Dexterity time to start before performing
any Dexterity tasks.
• Mobility scores are normalized for comparison.

Scoring Dexterity
• In order to score any dexterity points, you must score
at least 2 points during the mobility portion.
• Perform the Dexterity tasks starting anywhere and in
any order. No repeated tasks are allowed.
• Dexterity tasks may be performed with any part of the
robot.(Legs may press buttons/Flippers may turn
valves)
• Inspection tasks may be done with a chassis-mounted
camera.

Single Lane Missions

Version: 2026A

Prelims (30-minute rotations, 20-minute trials)
Each test lane can be conducted individually to capture a
statistically significant set of repetitions from end-to-end. This
enables teams to refine their systems and tactics for the
challenges in each test lane.
There are 10 concurrent start points and operator stations at each
lane. Teams schedule their own test plan each day to balance
their objectives with related risks. Teams typically try every lane
in the Preliminaries, but several scores can be dropped from the
totals.
Each team provides a “Proctor” to score and attest to the results
of other team trials. This ensures all teams go home with
experience conducting objective evaluations for their ongoing
development process.

Multiple Lane Missions (Sequence)
Semis (30-minute rotations, 20-minute trials)
These sequences challenge teams to optimize their systems across
different capabilities. There are 4 concurrent lane sequences with
different operational objectives. The lanes are conducted in any
order but no repeats are allowed until all lanes are completed.
Below are examples of semi final sequences. Finals may contain
more or all lanes. Note: this may change due to the layout of the
lanes in the arena.
Sequence 1
• Crossing Ramps (Slip disks)
• Gravel
• Traverse & Center

Sequence 3
• Avoid Holes
• Stairs
• Doors

Sequence 2
• Cubic Stepfield
• K-Rails
• Pallet Hurdles

Sequence 4
• Labyrinth

• Performing dexterity tasks autonomously will score
additional points. The attempt must start outside the
hallway which contains the dexterity task (around at
least one corner as noted in the diagram to the right).
While inside the hallway, if the robot successfully
performs a task with the manipulator being
autonomous (no teleoperation of the manipulator), a
score multiplier of 4 is applied (TA = teleoperated
approach, autonomous manipulation). If both
manipulation and driving are performed autonomously
(completely hands off the interface), a multiplier of 8 is
applied (AA = autonomous approach, autonomous
manipulation). Teams may map, scan, and/or mark
targets for manipulation at any time during the run.
• Dexterity scores are normalized for comparison.

Scoring Exploration/Mapping
• See Section on Mapping and Object Detection (pg17).

Approaches for Autonomous
Dexterity Tasks

8

Scoring Mobility
Version: 2026A

P1

7/15

10:00

TEAM A/COUNTRY

Jane Doe/USA

X

1
2
4
6
10
12
14
16
1
1
52

67

9

Embedded Dexterity Tasks/Scoring
Version: 2026A

Sensor Crate (White) Prelims/Semis/Finals
• QR Code Acuity, Visual/Color Acuity, Proximity, Hazmat, Motion, Thermal, 2-Way Audio
Inspect Tasks (Green) Prelims/Semis/Finals
• Linear – 1 point each (does not include multiplier)
• Omni – 2 point each (does not include multiplier)
Touch Tasks (Blue) – Prelims Only (easier, use your own tool)
• Linear – 2 point each (does not include multiplier)
• Omni – 4 point each (does not include multiplier)
Insert Tasks (Blue) - Semi and finals only (add the grasp shaft tool in center)
• Linear – 3 point each
• Omni – 6 point each
Operational Tasks (Black) – Semi Finals and Finals only
• Omni – 10 point each

10

Sensing Tasks (Victim Crate)
Version: 2026A

A

B

Scoring Sensing Tasks
In order to score sensor points (victim crate), you must score at
least 2 points mobility and 2 points in dexterity.
The victim crate must be placed in the lane.
The victim crate must be placed in an upright position.
Any sensor on the robot may be used to score points.
After a reset the arm must be in a stowed position.

MAGNET

If the manipulator is broken, you are not allowed to manually
place the manipulator over the victim box to score.

D
E
F
C

G

A - THERMAL IMAGE ACUITY (5 pts)
Hand warmer with 3D printed Concentric Cs
Process: Using a thermal camera display on
operator’s screen the heat signature in the
pattern of the Concentric Cs 2 levels deep.
B- PARTIAL IMAGE RECOGNITION (4 pts)
Random hazmat labels from a known set.
Process: Autonomously detect hazmat
label. Display bounding box around hazmat
label and display name of label.
C - MOTION DETECTION (4 pts)
Rotating disk with target
Process: Autonomously detect the rotating
target square or other shapes. Display on
operator’s screen a bounding box around
square and track while the target is in
motion for 360 degrees

D - PROXIMITY SAMPLING (3 pts)
Magnet
Process: Using magnetometer attached to the tool tip/
manipulator to detect the presence of the magnet
E - QR CODE ACUITY (2 pts)
QR Code
Process: Autonomously QR code. Display text on the operator’s
screen .
F – 2-WAY AUDIO ACUITY (1 pt)
MP3 Player with alpha-numeric sequence to identify
Process: Using your speaker/microphone, detect sound at the
operator station and at the robot. Must clearly detect one line of
the alpha-numeric sequence .
G - VISUAL/COLOR ACUITY (1 pt)
Concentric Cs
Process: Concentric Cs Identify the gap in the ring 3 levels deep.

11

CLASSIFICATION TASKS – INSPECT OBJECTS (Green)
Version: 2026A

Available in Prelims/Semis/Finals
●
●
●

Visual acuity tasks in linear/omni tasks will be QR codes or partial image recognition
Remote alignment is QR detection / partial image recognition
Teams must submit results with an overlaid image and decoded message

Note: LINEAR RAIL or OMNI may not be colored green. It may be the color of raw wood.

OMNI

LINEAR

QR CODE

QR CODE

HAZMAT

QR CODE

QR CODE

Linear rails are mounted on the wall at 60 cm (24 in).

Scoring matrix is found on the mission form

12

CLASSIFICATION TASK – TOUCH or INSERT TOOLS (Blue)
Version: 2026A

TOUCH = Sustained contact of shaft tip to hole interior in any orientation Easier – Only in Preliminaries
INSERT = Perpendicular penetration of shaft into hole at least 25mm (1in) Harder – In Semis and Finals

Note: LINEAR RAIL or OMNI may not be colored BLUE. It may be the color of raw wood.
LINEAR

OMNI

One of the standard dexterity tests is “Touch” tools which is conducted in every terrain. Linear rails are
mounted on the wall at 60 cm (24 in), Omni may be mounted on the wall at 60 cm or floor.
Blue apparatuses shown in both Linear (easier) and Omnidirectional (harder) configurations.

Scoring matrix is found on the mission form

13

Operational Tasks
OPERATIONAL TASK – PRESS BUTTONS (Black)

Version: 2026A

Harder due to force, friction, or precision. Omni configuration only

OPERATIONAL TASK – TURN VALVES (Black)
Harder due to force, friction, or precisions. Omni configuration only

14

Single Lane or Multi Lane Mission Form
ROUND

DATE

TIME

TEAM / COUNTRY

TERRAINS (TER)

PROCTOR: FULL NAME / COUNTRY

OBSTACLES (OBS)

Version: 2026A

EXPLORATION (EXP)

❑ (10) Crossing Ramps

❑ (9) K-Rails

❑ (1) Incline/Center

❑ (5) Stairs

❑ (4) Avoid Holes

❑ (2) Cubic Stepfields

❑ (3) Gravel

❑ (8) Pallets with Pipes

❑ (6) Doors

❑ (7) Mapping Labyrinth

CIRCLE SUCCESSFUL TASKS AND STRIKE THROUGH UNFINISHED OR PENALIZED TASKS.

MOBILITY: Drive TELEOPERATVELY or AUTONOMOUSLY (no hands-on interface) end-to-end in the lane.

AUTO POINTS

TOTAL POINTS

DEXTERITY: Perform the available SETS OF TASKS starting anywhere and in any order. No repeated tasks.
CIRCLE SUCCESSFUL TASKS AND STRIKE THROUGH UNFINISHED OR PENALIZED TASKS.

TT = Teleop Approach/Teleop Dex | CM = Comms | TA = Teleop Approach/Auto Dex | AA = Auto Approach/Auto Dex

P = Prelim Only
S = Semi
F = Finals

VISUAL ACUITY PTS: IDENTIFY 3C’S

|

THERMAL PTS: IDENTIFY 2C’S

COMS

DEX

TEAM LEADER SIGNATURE

TELEOP POINTS

+

+

+
POINTS

DEXTERITY

DEX

AUTO POINTS

=
SENSOR CRATE

TOTAL POINTS

15

Overall Score Calculation
Raw Scores

Version: 2026A

Max Score
=IF(B$25=0,0,B4/B$25)

Normalize Scores for Mob and DEX are combined for total score.
Note: MOB includes AUTO MOB and DEX includes AUTO DEX
Normalize Scores

MOB + DEX = Lane Score (max 200%)
Sum of all lane scores = Total Score (max 2000%)

16

Score Calculation for Best in Class and Bracket
Version: 2026A

For all BEST IN CLASS certificates individual scores are normalized
separately eg. autonomous dexitery
Best in Class Autonomy score is calculated by using the sum of all
Normalized Lane Scores for AUTO MOB and AUTO DEX
Best in Class Autonomous Mobility score is calculated by using all
Normalized Lane Scores for AUTO MOB

Best in Class Autonomous Dexterity score is calculated by using all
Normalized Lane Scores for AUTO DEX
Best in Class Autonomous Mapping score is calculated by using only
autonomous mapping points from the maze and then normalized.
Best-In-Class Award for Small Robot is normalized between small robot
missions. The sums of all scores count

Bracket Classification Awards are normalized together. (ie using the
overall competition score). Because the overhead of normalizing for
each bracket is too high.

17

FAQs
Version: 2026A

1.

How much weight is required for the payload task? 2x weight of the omni

2.

If we would like to perform only autonomous dexterity (TELE MOB + AUTO DEX), should we
inform the proctor to change the mode (e.g., by pressing a button to activate AUTO DEX)?
Yes, you should inform the proctor. Hands must be off the control unit.

3.

If we start in autonomous mode for half of the lap and encounter a problem, then switch to
teleoperation without touching the robot to finish the lap, how will the score be calculated?
The score would be teleoperation for the complete lap.

4.

What is the height of the doorknob used in the task? 90-120cm (36 - 48 ins.)

5.

What is the dimension of the tool shaft? 6mm (¼ in.)

6.

What is the required height for the linear and omni tasks? 60cm (24 in.)

7.

Are there any omni or linear tasks that are placed on the floor? Yes, tasks could be placed on
the floor.

8.

Is there a weight limit? Yes, 80kgs - with safe handles

9.

To score the victim box , Do you have to have a positive score? Yes, Mobility 2 points and Dex
2 points

10.

Where should the victim box be placed to score it? Anywhere in the lane. Must be upright

11.

Is scoring allowed with any part of the robot or only the manipulator? Any part of the robot

12.

If the manipulator is broken are you allowed to manually place the manipulator over the
victim box to score? No, not allowed. After reset the arm must be in a stowed position.

13.

To score ANY dexterity points you MUST have a positive score in Mobility, Yes, a score of 2

18

Version: 2026A

Mapping and Object Detection
Submission Specifications
Mission:
•
Teams will be given a period of 20 minutes to create maps of the area.
•
A mapping run begins from a designated start position, and ends when a map is saved
and cleared on the robot.
•
Teams may reset their mapping run if they choose, and they may perform as many
mapping runs as possible within their allotted time. Each subsequent mapping run
must start from the same designated start position.
During preliminary rounds, teams will be expected to submit the data from what they believe
to be their best mapping run (Subject to discussion).
In later rounds, multiple maps up to a maximum of 3 will be accepted for scoring.
Teams will be required to submit the following for each mapping run:
2D Map:
Submitted in the specified GeoTIFF format.
An open-source implementation for ROS is available at http://wiki.ros.org/hector_geotiff.
Does not contribute to mapping score.

3D Point Cloud Map:
Submitted in the specified [.PLY] format.
Recommended to use PCL to convert and save point cloud files.

Identified Objects CSV File:
Submitted in the specified CSV format.
The list of official object names will be provided during the competition.

Hand-in:
The files have to be automatically created - no editing by hand is allowed. The files have to be copied from the
robot/ operating station within 5 minutes after the run.

19

Version: 2026A

Mapping and Object Detection
Scoring Specifications
2D Map:
•
•

Mandatory to submit, but will not be scored.
Will not be scored directly, but may be used to help visualize other scoring metrics.

3D Point Cloud Map:
In comparison to our 3D ground truth cloud, two metrics will be calculated to score your point cloud:
•
Global Error (GE) - Computed as average cloud-to-cloud distance (in meters).
•
Coverage (CV) - Computed as the percentage of ground truth points for which the 3D Cloud contains a
point within a threshold distance.
•
Bonus multipliers will be awarded for having sensible RGB color data and/or heat data included in your
map. (1.25x and 1.6x respectively, 2x for both) (Subject to discussion)
•
Scores will be combined as: CV * (1 / (1 + GE)) * Bonus (Subject to discussion)
Please note:
•
These metrics require cloud alignment and identical scaling.
•
Teams will be responsible for proper scaling of their 3D Cloud (see specification).
•
Judges will be responsible for map alignment using ICP and manual point-pair alignment if necessary.
•
The alignment used for evaluation will be made available to teams.

Identified Objects CSV File:
Teams will be expected to detect several different kinds of objects and localize them within their 3D map.
These objects may include AprilTags (Standard41h12 family), Hazmat signs, physical objects (i.e. Backpack, Hard
hat, fire extinguisher, victim (baby doll), propane tank (empty)), and a heat signature. Each object is unique in
the arena - do not report multiple of the same type (in which case each additional detection will be discarded).
Two metrics will be calculated from the list of detections:
•
Localization Error (LE) - For all detections, this metric will represent the average difference in distance
(in meters) between all detection pairs compared to the ground truth.
•
Detection Score (DS) - The sum of various point denominations will be awarded (based on difficulty) for
detections that are within an error threshold. (i.e., AR = 1, Hazmat Signs = 2, Object = 10, Heat = 15).
Additionally, points will be subtracted for each detection above this error threshold (i.e. -3 points).
•
Scores will be combined as: DS / (1 + LE) (Subject to discussion)
Please note:
•
Detection coordinates should correspond to the center of mass of the detected object.
•
These metrics are not impacted by global alignment between the ground truth and 3D Cloud.
•
There will be an additional Detection Score penalty for reported detections for objects which are not
present in the mapping area.
Overall mapping score will be the average normalized score contributions from 3D Map (0.5), Detection CSV
(0.5). 2D Map must be submitted to receive a mapping score.

20

Version: 2026A

Mapping and Object Detection
Format Specifications
2D Map Format
2D maps have to be submitted in the specified GeoTIFF format. An open-source implementation for ROS is
available at http://wiki.ros.org/hector_geotiff.
Example map:

21

In the following, all elements of the map are described:

Version: 2026A

•

Fileformat: GeoTIFF

•

FILENAME: DARK BLUE (RGB: 0, 44, 207) TEXT
For example, “RoboCup2025-TeamName-Mission1.tiff” displayed in the upper left corner to identify
the map, make it sort properly in a directory, and findable on a computer.

•

MAP SCALE: DARK BLUE (RGB: 0, 50, 140) TEXT AND EXACTLY 1 METER LONG LINE
Display this in the upper right corner to indicate the scale of the map.

•

MAP ORIENTATION: DARK BLUE (RGB: 0, 50, 140) TEXT (“X” AND “Y”) AND ABOUT 50 cm LONG
ARROWS
Display this next to the map scale. It gives the orientation for the victim location in the victim file.
Must be a right handed coordinate system: X points upwards, Y to the left.

•

UNEXPLORED AREA GRID: LIGHT/DARK GREY (RGB: 226, 226, 227/RGB: 237, 237, 238)
CHECKERBOARD WITH 100CM SQUARES
This solid checkerboard pattern should show the unexplored area and provide scale on all sides of the
mapped area. It should also print in black and white without ambiguity with other areas potentially
turned grey in the process.

•

EXPLORED AREA GRID: BLACK (RGB: 190,190,191) GRID WITH 50CM GRID AND ABOUT 1 CM THICK
LINES (use a one pixel line in the map)
This grid should only appear in the explored area, behind any walls, victim locations, or other
information. The grid should be aligned with the checkerboard pattern of the unexplored area, but
twice as fine to allow visual inspection of wall alignments.

•

INITIAL ROBOT POSITION: GREEN (RGB: 0, 240, 0) ARROW
This should mark the initial position of the robot and always be pointed toward the top of the map.

•

WALLS AND OBSTACLES: DARK BLUE (RGB: 0, 40, 120) FEATURES
This should indicate the walls and other obstacles in the environment. The color should make the walls
stand out from everything else.

•

SEARCHED AREA: WHITE CONFIDENCE GRADIENT (RGB: 128, 128, 128 to RGB: 255, 255, 255)
This should be based on the confidence that the area is really free. It should produce a clean white
when seen as free by all measurements and nearly untouched when undecided, that is, nearly equally
seen as occupied as free, to produce a dither effect.

•

APRILTAG LOCATION: SOLID YELLOW (RGB: 255, 200, 0) CIRCLE WITH ABOUT 35CM DIAM
CONTAINING WHITE (RGB) TEXT “#” REPRESENTING THE LABEL ASSOCIATED WITH THE APRILTAG

•

HAZMAT LOCATION: SOLID ORANGE (RGB: 255, 100, 30) DIAMOND WITH ABOUT 30CM SIDES
CONTAINING WHITE (RGB) TEXT “@@” REPRESENTING THE FIRST TWO LETTERS OF THE HAZMAT
LABEL

•

REAL OBJECT LOCATION: SOLID RED (RGB: 240, 10, 10) DIAMOND WITH ABOUT 30CM SIDES
CONTAINING WHITE (RGB) TEXT “@@” REPRESENTING THE FIRST TWO LETTERS OF THE IDENTIFIED
OBJECT

•

ROBOT PATH: MAGENTA (RGB: 120, 0, 140) LINE ABOUT 2CM THICK
This should show the robot path.

NOTE: If a team wishes to deviate from this 2D format in order to make improvements on the
understandability and usefulness of their generated 2D map, they will not be penalized for doing so. The
submitted map should contain all of the same information (scale, detections, physical barriers, robot path,
etc.), but stylistic choices may be made to make it more presentable. The important capability to demonstrate
is producing a clean, useful 2D map for field operations.

22

Identified Objects CSV Format

Version: 2026A

In addition to indicating identified objects in the map, they have to be submitted in a CSV list. In the following,
the structure of the file is given:
Filename: RoboCup[Year]-[Teamname]-[Mission]-[Start Time]-pois.csv
([Start Time] should be formatted as HH-MM-SS)
Format for the file header:
"pois"
"1.3"
"[Your team name]"
"[Your country]"
"[Start Date]"
"[Start Time]"
"[Mission #]"
detection,time,type,name,x,y,z,robot,mode
Replace the placeholders “[...]” with your data. Please leave the quotes in the file, but not the brackets.
The file body contains one line for each found object in the following format:
[detection],[time],[type],[name],[x],[y],[z],[robot],[mode]
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

[detection]: Unique integer counter for each object that is also printed on the geotiff map
[time]: Time stamp when the object was found
[type]: Type of the object: [ ar_code, hazmat_sign, real_object, heat_sig ]
[name]: Unique ID for detection (i.e. ar_code number, hazmat label, object name)
[x], [y], [z]: Coordinates of the object in meters
[robot]: Name of the robot that found the object
[mode]: Mode of the robot when it found the object: A for autonomous, T for teleoperated

Strings which include spaces should be enclosed with double quotes. Here is an example of a file which might
be named “RoboCup2025-ReskoKoblenz-Prelim1-pois.csv”:
"pois"
"1.3"
"Resko Koblenz"
"Germany"
"2018-06-23"
"14:37:03"
"Prelim1"
detection,time,type,name,x,y,z,robot,mode
1,14:28:01,”ar_code”,”2”,-8.2992,-2.2904,0.49,"Robbie 1",A
2,14:28:02,”ar_code”,”34”,-8.2993,-2.2902,0.4563,"Robbie 2",T
3,14:28:05,”hazmat_sign”,”poison”,-5.7452,-7.0849,0.2130,"Robbie 1",A
4,14:30:14,”real_object”,”gloves”,-6.0845,-0.1251,0.3561,"Robbie 1",A
5,14:32:56,”heat_sig”,”0”,-9.2817,0.04968,0.7561,"Robbie 2",T
IMPORTANT: There will only be one instance of each object included in the mapping area at any time. Teams
must only include one detection per unique object. If duplicate objects are contained in the submitted CSV,
only the first instance of that object will be used for scoring.
A list of object labels will be provided to teams. Mislabelled objects and submissions not following the
specified format will not be scored.

23

3D Point Cloud Map

Version: 2026A

Teams will submit a 3D pointcloud representation of the mapped area to be scored with respect to a generated
ground truth map. The submitted map should adhere to the following specification:
Filename: RoboCup[Year]-[Teamname]-[Mission]-[Start Time]-map.ply
([Start Time] should be formatted as HH-MM-SS)
Your point cloud should be formatted as an ASCII file.
The header of your file should adhere to the PLY file format.
At a minimum, your file should include float type fields for x, y, and z.
Teams may include additional fields such as:
RGB Color Information
Heat Information
Point Normal Information
Confidence Scalar
Maps which contain sensible color and/or heat data will be awarded a bonus point multiplier.
IMPORTANT: The scale of your map coordinates are expected to be in meters. (i.e. A distance of 1 unit in the
submitted point cloud should correspond to 1 meter in the real world). Improper scaling will severely penalize
your score.
The origin location (0,0,0) of the 3D Cloud should be set to the starting position for the robot which will be
marked on the floor in the mapping area. More specifically, the origin should be set to be the center of the
front of the robot, at floor height. Rotationally, the starting position will point the robot in the +Y direction, and
the vertical axis will be Z.
More information on PLY format can be found here.
The format for the PLY header that should be included is shown below.
NOTE: You are not required to include all fields if you are not collecting those kinds of data
ply
format ascii 1.0
comment {Team Name}
comment {Start time}
comment {Mission #}
element vertex {Number of Vertices}
property float x
property float y
property float z
property uchar red
property uchar green
property uchar blue
property float nx
property float ny
property float nz
property float temp
property float confidence
end_header
{DATA}

24
